Mobility Parking Scheme Application (MPS)
Individual and Temporary Permits

Introduction
If you have a medical condition or disability that affects your mobility or vision, you may be eligible for a Mobility Parking Scheme (MPS) permit.

The permit lets you park in disability parking spaces. You can also park at no charge and for longer time periods in some parking areas.

There are 2 types of permits issued by Southern Coastland Road Authority:
individual (blue card): issued for 5 years if you have a permanent disability
temporary (red card): issued for up to 6 months if you have a temporary disability.

Eligibility
You may be eligible for a permit if any of the following applies:
you cannot walk because of permanent or temporary loss of use of one or both legs, or other permanent medical or physical condition
your physical condition is detrimentally affected as a result of walking 100 metres
you need to use crutches, a walking frame, callipers, scooter, wheelchair or other similar mobility aid
you are permanently blind.
Note: Applicants who have an intellectual, psychiatric or cognitive impairment must meet at least one of the eligibility criteria above in order to be considered eligible.

Important information
You or your representative must fill in the application form before seeing your medical doctor. The medical information in this application will be used for the administration of the MPS and where appropriate for the Driver Licensing Scheme. Southern Coastland Road Authority has a responsibility to ensure that all licence holders are medically fit to drive. If you hold a driver licence and Southern Coastland Road Authority needs to be notified of any medical condition, you will need to have your doctor complete Section 3 (Medical Report) of this application. The medical information will be used to verify your medical fitness to drive. In the event that any medical practitioner recommends restrictions in respect of your driver licence or certifies that you are medically unfit to drive, this may result in restrictions being placed on your driver licence or the suspension of your driver licence. Section 3 is not required to be completed if the application is for a temporary permit issued for the first time or where a previously held temporary permit has already expired.

Proof of identity
A person applying for, renewing or replacing a MPS permit is required to produce acceptable proof of their identity, such as a driver licence. Other acceptable identification documents are shown in List 1 and List 2 in Southern Coastland Road Authority brochure, 'How to prove who you are' available at any Southern Coastland Road Authority.
Applicants may show one document each from List 1 and List 2. Alternatively, two List 2 documents, such as a current Medicare card or Pensioner Concession card, are acceptable.

Fees
A fee is required for the issue of an Individual or Temporary MPS permit to non-pensioners. Permits are free for eligible pensioners. Proof of the concession is required and must be validated online.
For further information on current fees payable please visit Southern Coastland Road Authority.

Privacy statement

Southern Coastland Road Authority is collecting your personal and health information for your MPS application and to verify your fitness to drive and may retain and use it for driver licensing, motor vehicle and road transport or safety purposes. Southern Coastland Road Authority is subject to the Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 and the Health Records and Information Privacy Act 2002. Southern Coastland Road Authority is entitled to obtain your personal information under the Road Transport (Safety and Traffic Management) Regulation 1999 and may refuse your application if you do not provide it. Southern Coastland Road Authority may disclose your personal information:
to other driver licensing and vehicle registration agencies,
to assess your application or verify the information you provide and,
for inquiries about motor accidents.

Additionally, where you provide personal information concerning the registration of a vehicle we may disclose that;
to confirm any compulsory insurance is current,
to anyone proposing to acquire an interest in your vehicle,
in respect of inquiries relating to stolen or abandoned vehicles, and
to any joint registered operator of your vehicle.

Southern Coastland Road Authority may disclose your health information to assess your application or to verify it. Otherwise Southern Coastland Road Authority will not disclose your personal information without your consent unless authorised by law.

Your personal and health information will be held by Southern Coastland Road Authority and you can contact Southern Coastland Road Authority to request access or correct it. Under clause 159 of the Road Transport (Safety and Traffic Management) Regulation 1999, penalties apply for providing false or misleading information.
