Mobility Parking Scheme (MPS)
Conditions of use and Parking concessions

Displaying your permit
From September 2020, Mobility Parking Scheme (MPS) permits must be displayed in an Australian Disability Parking permit, as provided to you by Southern Coastland Road Authority. As a courtesy, Southern Coastland Road Authority can supply a suction cup to attach the permit to the vehicle window. You are not required to use this device and may use other methods that do not obscure the permit details or the driver's vision. If you choose to use the suction cup, the manufacturer advises that the suction cup's effectiveness is improved when used on a clean windscreen. Use of an alcohol wipe is recommended as some window cleaners may leave a residue.

Conditions of Use
An MPS permit is issued subject to the following conditions and heavy penalties may apply for failing to adhere to these conditions:
The permit must be inserted and displayed in the plastic sleeve on the Australian Disability Parking permit provided to you by Southern Coastland Road Authority.
The permit must only be displayed when the vehicle is being used to transport the individual to whom the permit was issued. It must not be used to visit or run errands for an eligible person when that person is not being transported in the vehicle.
The permit should be displayed unobscured on the left hand (passenger) side of the vehicle on either the vehicle's windscreen, or on any window. If this is not practicable, it should be placed in an area where the whole of the permit may be viewed from outside the vehicle. The sides marked 'THIS SIDE UP' or 'DISPLAY THIS SIDE' must face out. The permit may be attached to the vehicle by any method that does not obscure any of the permit details or the vision of the driver when the vehicle is in motion.
The permit must be produced on direction from a police officer or other authorised officer.
The permit is valid until the date of expiry, unless it is revoked.
The permit can no longer be used once it expires. It must be renewed and a current permit displayed for any disability parking concessions.
The permit must be returned to a motor registry on expiry, if it is revoked by Southern Coastland Road Authority or as soon as its use is no longer required e.g. the person no longer suffers from the disability that made them eligible for the permit.
The permit must not be reproduced, copied, defaced, altered or destroyed.
The permit is not valid if reproduced, copied, defaced or otherwise altered or where one or more of the details on the permit (e.g. card number or expiry date) are illegible.
If the permit is used in another State or Territory, it may be used in accordance with their prevailing parking concessions.
The permit may be confiscated by an authorised officer and/or revoked by Southern Coastland Road Authority for misuse or breach of any of these Conditions of Use.
The permit is subject to other such conditions that may be imposed by Southern Coastland Road Authority.

Parking concessions
The MPS permit entitles you to park in spaces marked with a symbol for people with disabilities. The permit also provides parking concessions in other spaces:
When parking in metered, coupon or ticket parking areas, no charge is applied.
Where parking is limited by a sign to more than 30 minutes, the vehicle can park for an unlimited time.
Where parking is limited by a sign to 30 minutes, the vehicle can park for 2 hours.
Where parking is limited by a sign to less than 30 minutes, the vehicle can park for a maximum of 30 minutes.
At a 'No Parking' sign you may park up to 5 minutes, and the driver must remain within the vehicle or within 3 metres of the vehicle to drop off or pick up passengers or goods.
All other parking rules apply.

When do the concessions apply?
The parking concessions apply when the MPS permit is displayed on the vehicle and it is being used to transport the individual to whom the permit is issued.

Replacement MPS permits
When applying for a replacement MPS permit, you must indicate the reason in the relevant area of this form. If you are unable to return the permit you are replacing, you must complete the declaration at Question 6. Once a replacement MPS permit is issued, the previous MPS permit is revoked and can no longer be displayed in a vehicle. Displaying a revoked MPS permit can result in a heavy fine being issued. If your old MPS permit is found, you must post it to Southern Coastland Road Authority.

Invalid MPS permits
A MPS permit becomes invalid if it expires, is revoked by Southern Coastland Road Authority or the permit holder is deceased. Display of a MPS permit that is invalid can result in a heavy fine being issued. Invalid permits should be posted to Southern Coastland Road Authority.

Changes in your Medical Condition
If your medical condition improves and you no longer require the use of your MPS permit, you are required to return your MPS permit to your nearest motor registry or post it to Southern Coastland Road Authority.

Penalties
Failure to comply with these conditions can constitute an offence under the Road Transport (Safety and Traffic Management) Regulation 1999 and you can be fined up to $2,200.00.

Hotline
Abuse of the MPS can be reported by phoning 1300 STOPIT
